thank you very much
oh hello i don't think we've met sam
ericks
victor tang pleased to meet you and what
company are you from mr
tank ocean wide i'm the sales
representative for this region
ah yes i know your company uh your
business is expanding very rapidly at
the moment
yes we're doing quite well and yourself
who do you work for
actually i work for myself i'm the ceo
of a small
export and packaging company we
specialize in seafood
it's a growing market yes but a very
competitive one mr tang
please call me victor sam victor let me
introduce you to someone
lynn this is victor tang he's the
regional rep for ocean wide this is lynn
chan my sales manager how do you do mr
tang i'm very well thank you
nice to meet you miss chen and you can i
get you another drink
thank you
well it's been good to meet you sam and
very interesting to hear about your
business
look we are having a small dinner for
some of our clients and friends after
this
why don't you join us that's very kind
of you i'll just check with my associate
whether they have other arrangements for
us well your associate is most welcome
to join us too
thank you excuse me walter
this is sam ericks from eric's imports
he has very kindly invited us to a
dinner
yes would you like to join us
unfortunately i have another engagement
thank you for the invitation well
perhaps you could join us after that for
a drink
sounds great i'd be happy to where shall
we meet
how about the lounge bar here at about
i'll see you then excuse me
lynn victor's joining us for dinner oh
wonderful
i hope you don't mind of course not
you're most welcome
well um should we make a move would you
mind if i just say goodbye to a few
people
no problem we'll see you outside in a
few minutes okay
another drink sir no thank you
excuse me is anyone sitting here
no please have a seat that's better
my feet are killing me have you been
here long
no but i just flew in this morning and i
haven't had a chance to sit down since
then
no where have you come from from manila
is this your first visit to australia no
i have been once before
but it was a long time ago and have you
been to sydney before
no it's an amazing city
yes it has its points but you're lucky
to live in manila it's a fascinating
city
what about yourself do you live in
sydney
no i live in melbourne i'm just here for
the conference
i'm going to melbourne later what's the
weather like there
not too good in winter but at the moment
it should be okay
so how's your hotel it's good
very convenient just near the harbour
have you seen the opera house yet yes we
flew right over it
excuse me there's someone i must talk to
it's been very nice to meet you i'm
walter by the way
you too i'm sue perhaps we'll meet later
i hope so
has everybody got a copy of the agenda
would you mind taking minutes john oh
not at all
good well then let's get started
first of all thank you everyone for
attending at short notice
as you know the objective of this
meeting of the capital works committee
is to discuss a proposal for some urgent
building work at our south side plant
as we've got to reach a decision which
may involve spending
we'll run it as a formal meeting now
you've read the proposal so without
further ado i'd like to open it up for
discussion
or perhaps if we can start with you tan
what's your view
well i'm not convinced that the work is
as urgent as this report suggests
so to sum up i think we are all aware
that some urgent work does need to be
done
and we will need to work on a longer
term plan for a major refit
well if there's no more discussion we'll
put it to a vote
we are recommending that tenders be
called for the urgent work needed
all those in favor all those against
then that's agreed any other business
then we'll close the meeting thank you
everyone the next meeting will be in two
weeks
at the same time
well i'm not convinced that the work is
as urgent as this report suggests
so perhaps come on the building is
practically falling
down sorry lin i don't think tan had
finished
we'll get to you in a minute sorry as i
was saying
perhaps we should get a second opinion
before we spend any money
thank you tan what's your opinion walter
well as far as i'm concerned it's a
question of safety so i think we should
go ahead
are you suggesting that someone could
get hurt in my opinion yes
if you ask me there is a serious risk of
an accident
and it's not a recent problem are you
implying we should have done something
earlier
much earlier it's a real concern here
in that case i agree we should do
something now
i think so too thank you walter
well if there's no excuse me madam
chairperson yes barbara
what about the problem with parking
there were no places again this morning
maybe if you got to work on time all
comments through the chair if you don't
mind walter
parking isn't on the agenda for this
meeting perhaps you could suggest it for
our next meeting barbara
well if there's no more discussion we'll
put it to a vote
here here okay
now we're looking at the options for
handling our online orders
they're going through the roof and
frankly the lead time for delivery is
blowing out
we need to improve our performance in
this area
any suggestions well as i said we have
three options
the obvious one is to employ more people
to do the job
another alternative is to automate the
system more
cut down on the physical handling and
the third option
we could outsource what are the pros and
cons
well looking at increasing staff versus
automation
we have to consider the cost automating
has a higher capital cost than putting
on more staff
on the other hand employing more people
is more expensive over a long term
if we keep growing it'll cost more in
the long run
how likely is it that we'll see
continued growth
i'd say it's a certainty oh i'd say a
high probability nothing certain in
business
so what about the third option
outsourcing
it does take the problem off our hands
but we lose contact with our customers
what about the bottom line outsourcing
is the cheapest option and the easiest
in the short term but if we want to keep
the operation in house
the best option is automating our system
the only downside is we're taking a risk
that our business will keep growing
which we hope it will we certainly do
today we're looking at our new widget
plant being built at south side
i've asked barbara to report on progress
and bring us up to date
and up to speed barbara thanks denise
i'll just outline the process we've been
through identify
some problems and give you an estimate
on completion time
and the outcome financially is it good
news or bad news
bear with me now if you recall
after a feasibility study we put the
project out to 10 to 18 months ago
and selected easy build as our project
manager
work commenced about 15 months ago and
it's been progressing to schedule
until recently what's the problem
unfortunately there are three firstly
there's been a delay in materials
specifically steel because of industrial
issues at the suppliers
secondly we've lost days due to the
weather
and finally there's been a resulting
cost blowout
so what are we going to do well they've
managed to get another supplier now
i suggested moving the completion date
back that way there's no penalty
and they agreed to redeploy their
workers until building can start again
smart thinking we've been waiting for
the rain to stop
but we can't control the weather and the
cost
at this stage just a small overage but
i'll be watching it very closely over
the next few months
with no more delays we're expecting to
complete the project
just one month behind schedule good work
barbara
now i'd like to refer to the first graph
as you can see this is a bar graph
measuring net
sales over the first 10 months of the
year
you'll notice that sales rose steadily
in the first few months
then there was a marked increase in
april
they peaked in may at around 3.2 million
and leveled off
then there was a dramatic drop in the
following month followed by a
significant increase
in august and this trend has continued
up until the present
what was the reason for the sudden drop
in july this was mainly due to a
drop-off in air conditioner sales so
it's a seasonal effect could it be a
consequence of the negative effect of
the interest rate rise
possibly now if i could draw your
attention to this next
diagram this is a line graph of sales
the blue line represents air conditioner
sales
the red line shows heaters as you'll
note
air conditioner sales dropped steadily
from january to july
bottoming out then while heater sales
experienced a sharp increase from march
to june
then dropped markedly from june to july
then declined through to september with
a pronounced drop in october
does this explain the fluctuation in
total sales largely
if we look at this pie diagram
you can see that air conditioners and
heaters together
represent more than half of our total
sales
but they vary seasonally while other
appliances are fairly steady through the
year
well we can't sell air conditioners when
it's cold what's the solution
export to europe and america easier said
than done
today i'm going to look at the results
of our
customer survey first i'll go through
the survey questions
then summarise the results and finally
i'll outline the conclusions
after that there'll be time for
questions and discussion
so let's start with the survey questions
turning to the results as you can see
from the diagram
most people decided what to buy when
they saw the product at the showroom
about one-third made their decision
based on what the salesperson
said the others knew what they wanted to
buy already
most of those made their decision on the
recommendation of a friend
only a few said they relied on
advertising
let's move on to the conclusions the
first one
is that it's very important that
salespeople on the floor know about our
products
another is that after sales service
is critical people who experience good
after sales service
are more likely to recommend a brand and
finally advertising
it's expensive so we need to make sure
we're getting results
so i'd like to end with a summary of
what i've looked at today
and some recommendations
the figures show that sales are strongly
seasonal
and that customers depend on good
information on the showroom floor
so i'd like to recommend we concentrate
on discounting in the off seasons
and spend more time on briefing our
sales representatives
that's all i have for now are there any
questions
you mentioned that the sales figures may
also reflect
economic trends can you expand on that
well we are always going to depend on
the economy
as i understand it we can look forward
to an improvement this year
does that answer your question are you
saying we're in for a period of growth
well i'm afraid that's a bit outside my
area of expertise
but that's what the papers are
suggesting if you believe it
you suggested that we might be spending
too much on advertising
can you clarify that it's hard to
quantify without better data
sorry could you repeat that
we don't have the figures to really know
how effective our advertising
is in my experience you can't do
without advertising
time for one last question i have one
yes john is it time for coffee
okay we'll wrap up now thank you for
your input everyone
thank you wilson wilson can i help you
yes this is lynn chan from acme
appliances
i'd like to speak to mr wilson if he's
available please
would that be mr wilson senior or mr
wilson jr
mr wilson senior i'll just see if he's
available
hold the line please
[Applause]
it's a lynn chan from acme
i'm sorry mr wilson's in a meeting at
the moment may i take a message
yes could you ask him to phone me please
my number is
two three double one five six
five four i'm sorry i didn't catch your
name
lin chan acme appliances let me check
the number
two three double one five six five four
that's right i'll pass that message on
thank you thanks bye
acme appliances lynn chan speaking
this is tom wilson returning your call
ah yes mr wilson
thanks for calling back i wanted to set
up a meeting with you to discuss your
requirements for next year
yes certainly how about uh thursday at 2
30.
that would be fine okay i look forward
to seeing you then
thursday 2 30. see you then goodbye
goodbye
hello lin chan sales manager for
national sugar
and my associate john martin very
pleased to meet you i'm victor tang
and this is my legal advisor sue panet i
hope you had a pleasant flight over
yes we did thanks are you staying for a
few days unfortunately we need to get
back to manila tomorrow
well we'd better get down to business
mr tang to start off with i just want to
say we believe we can offer you a very
good deal
and come up with a win-win result well
from our point of view we see it as an
exploratory tool
testing the water you might say we don't
intend to reach any agreements at this
meeting
in any case we would need to run it past
our board first
you haven't heard our terms yet you may
find them hard to resist
of course we understand you need time to
consider any offer
my first priority is to keep the
negotiations open
what's your proposal ms chen we're
prepared to offer a very attractive
price for a minimum sale
in exchange for a two-year contract john
will clarify the terms
so that's our offer we believe it's a
fair one with advantages for both sides
yes well we're prepared to consider your
offer miss chant
if you can accept some conditions and
subject to consideration by the board
what are the conditions well firstly
the price you're proposing would that be
variable depending on currency
fluctuations
the issue is that we're in an unstable
environment at the moment
the exchange rate could affect us
negatively us too
true but the problem is that we're tied
to the u.s dollar
we could consider hedging against
currency in both directions
that would be acceptable another problem
we may have
is that of supply our customers often
need supply at short notice
if we do get large orders we need to
guarantee delivery so we need the
stockpile
the difficulty there is the capital
outlay how would you feel
about a partial offset against our sales
you mean alone i suppose so would you be
agreeable to a deferred payment
we can provide security of course i
think that would be acceptable
unfortunately i would need to get board
approval for it
of course then i think we might have a
deal
in principle time to celebrate
our keynote speaker is a man who i'm
sure is very well known to all of you
he's professor of fruitology at dubbo
university
and has written many books on the
subject of tropical fruit
so without further ado i'd like to
introduce our keynote speaker
dr sam erics
thank you denise the honourable judith
bryant
minister for trade professor eric vogel
professor of economics at wagga
university
distinguished guests ladies and
gentlemen
today's topic why bananas are bent
is a very significant one in terms both
of international trade
and culture in thinking about the topic
i felt it would be appropriate to
address
briefly the history of bananas and
banana farming
the many qualities of bananas both
positive and negative
and of course examine the uses of the
banana
but first let me tell you a story about
a banana
ladies and gentlemen i hope i've been
able to clear up a few misconceptions
and leave you with some new ideas about
how we might view
bananas in the future we've seen
in looking at their history that bananas
have a significant
role in many cultures i've also noted
their positive
nutritional qualities and in addressing
the main question
why bananas are bent we've learned that
the reasons are many
and complex madam chair
thank you for the opportunity to address
the conference today
and thank you ladies and gentlemen for
your kind attention
well it has been a great pleasure to
meet you sam and lynn
yes we've enjoyed meeting you too victor
yes it's been great
what a pity you have to go home well all
good things must come to an
end but i'm sure we'll meet again yes i
hope so
and good luck with your business i'm
sure it will go well
and i wish you every success too well i
think we should drink a toast to the end
of the conference
and to ourselves here's to us cheers
cheers
we should keep in touch yes have i given
you my card
oh no
thanks very much here's mine
do you have a card lin yes
thank you i'll send you an email
and if you're ever in singapore you must
look me up we certainly will
and you have my number when you're next
in sydney give me a call
we'll have a drink may i take these
well i'd better get going or miss my
flight have a good flight home
bon voyage goodbye until next time
goodbye
let's compare e and a
together some of my students they find
it's quite tricky to distinguish between
this cell
now and now okay let's study this is
f to make the air sound very easy
uh like this your your lips are slightly
open
like this and at the same time put
your jaw and your tongue down okay
some people spread their lips
into both sides like this
no sorry it's not correct okay just put
your jaw
and your tongue down
so this is wet
wet this one pan
pan this lead
let some of my students they pronounce
like
wet or that or what
this is open
[Music]
sorry they are not correct okay
put your jaw in your tongue down
very quick wet
wet pen pen
this one
let let now
one e uh
they are somehow the same because they
have the same vowel
air right but this is the deep thong
diphthong two single vowels together so
they come from
e and then end in e
okay begin with e and
end with e e
okay now match them together a
a okay somehow the same with
a a very soft okay a
now again this one
just drawer and then
and this one a little bit open
and then close a
a understand so
[Music]
a a
this is weight
weight this one
pain pain this is
a a and then ain't
so we have pain pain
this one late
late now compare them together
wet wet
weight weight
pain pain
let let
light light okay
uh can you hear the differences between
them yes right
now one more time quicker
wet wet wait
wait wait wait
pen pen pain
pain pain pain
let let light
light let light
now let's come to e
and air somehow the same too right
now just
move your tongue in your jaw down
this one come from
remember
air again huh this is
stop here and this one
quicker air air
so again e
air air can you see the difference
yes right now
we have
very very
fairy fairy
fa air
air shared
shared very
very fairy
fairy